Alone.
Welcome back to the program.
And today we're talking about matrices and you might ask curial are matrices really that important that
we have to devote a whole section of the Course to this topic.
And the answer is yes because as you can see from the previous tutorial a lot of the world's data is
stored in form of tables and matrices is one of the ways to work with tables in Python.
And moreover as you'll see further from the course we'll be working with doorframes and matrices are
a great stepping stone towards doorframes.
So let's get started and understand how matrices work in Python.
Here at the top we have not so much a matrix not yet.
This is just a list so we're familiar of lists.
Just a simple list in Python and it's got one dimension and therefore that one indexation 0 1 2 3 4
.
So that's our decision as we can see from previous Sterle tables that actually have a second dimension
And what happens then.
So what does the table look like.
In this case for instance it's a 5:23 table or three by five table through three rows and five columns
.
And let's say it's populated with the number 50 in every single cell.
Well in this case we need another set of indexation to help us with the other dimension.
It's very similar to what we learned about Liszt's It's just that it has two dimensions.
Inevitably we're going to run into a problem.
And the problem is how do we do indexation in a two dimensional object.
For example we have this table here or this matrix.
And how do we get to and say this matrix called a how do we get to this number zero in our matrix.
Well we could try things that we know about lists already.
Right so we could say how about a number three.
Assuming that this is our third column so trying to access them with 3Com But then we don't know which
element it is we can just tell from there it's still ambiguous which elements we're trying to access
or we could say so that doesn't work or we could say to for instance to signify that this is the second
row.
But again we just from this notation we can really tell whether we're talking about the second row or
the second column.
And if we're talking about either then which element inside are we referring to.
So the correct approach here would be a to three a.
And then in square brackets we have two and three and two represents that we are looking at the second
row three represents a third column where intersection starts at zero.
So it's always like that the first digit represents or first number presents the row and the second
one represents the call that is also why in pi.
And you can reference the individual rows in this following fashion.
So if you say a zero comma colon where the colon just means everything basically in that Rozsa no limitation
what you'll get.
So in this case you will get that top row and same thing for the columns.
We can just put this nominal notation here.
And so if you say a square brackets colon come up for which we're going to get.
That's correct you're going to get the last column over here.
So that is how you can index whole rows and columns and if you want individual elements then that is
the approach to go.
So we'll be working with this a bit more throughout this course will be coming up quite a bit and we'll
get used to this type of indexation with time.
Hope you enjoy this tural and I look forward to see you next time.
Until then coding